---
title: L4
created: '2020-08-27T04:39:39.571Z'
modified: '2020-08-27T05:21:38.933Z'
---

# L4
Given info aka premise -> Conclusion
This is argument

## Argument
Argument = A statement (or group of) meant to convince a listener/ reader to accept a conclusion
  - An equivalent word for argument in logic, 
  is debate


<Tangent\>
  - neo riche, people whose wealth was accumulated by lottery or something sudden
    - they tend to be spendthrifty

  </Tangent\>
  - Reasoning: the thinking power/ability to look at the number of statements and arrive at a conclusion. It is a requirement to use logic
  - Argument is a group of statements, you need reasoning to see if the statements are relevant or in the right sequence.
    - Arguments can be good or bad, or rather "valid" or "invalid"

## Proposition
> Assertion about something or someone
  > - it states that something is/ isnt the case

> 1. claims about something
>  2. Has a Truth value
        - Don't get into subjectiveness, that is debatable
> 3. Affirmation possible
    - Affirming the truth value, confirmation, checking and confirming
    - however there are many advanced kinds of logic which consider reality itself subjective, but we wont deal with them

## What is not a proposition? 
- Commands (or Declaration) and Questions are not propositions
  - Requests are either a command or a request, so they are not propositions

## Proposition == Sentences?
- John ate the pizza
- The pizza was eaten by John
- It is the pizza that was eaten by John
- It is John who ate the Pizza
- Pizza, John ate. (yoda stuff)

Syntax doesn't change the fact it's a proposition, but they are different sentences
  - They can even be translated

Similarly, the same sentence can have different propositions
  - also depends on  body language, context etc.
  - he is the richest man on earth (can refer to anyone)


> - SO, the answer is NO


Propositions can have components of more basic propositions

> Argument is a cluster of propositons

- Proposition1-Propositions2- proposition3... -PropositionN

Are all clusters of propositions, arguments?
NO.
 - we may not infer anything from a cluster of propositions

> Updated definition: An argument involves inferring/deducing/arriving at a conclusion on the basis of given information

if this definition is not followed, it isn't an argument
